[MUSIC PLAYING]
JEREMY: This is the final
screen cast of the course.
Here we are.
What's happening?
I'm going to start a
Python interpreter instead
of the usual GHCi.
Shock.
Horror.
Why am I reverting to Python--
Python 3 to be precise.
Let me explain.
What I want to do in
this final screencast
is to show you the
functional constructs that
pop up in mainstream languages.
I admit Haskell isn't a
mainstream language yet,
and it's probably true that
no functional programming
language is in the same league
as Python, Java, or C++.
However, functional
constructs and ideas
are being incorporated into
imperative and object-oriented
languages.
So let's have a
little look at Python.
Here is a lambda expression.
Lambda x goes to x plus 1.
This is the increment function.
And we can apply
this to an argument.
Here, applying it to 2,
and it returns the value 3.
Notice the parentheses.
I think Python would complain
without these brackets.
Now, here's a map
function in Python.
I'm going to map
my same increment
function-- x goes to x plus 1
over a list of elements 1, 2,
3.
The thing I get back
is a map object.
I can either
enumerate this object
or convert it back into a list.
When I convert it into a list,
I get back the list 2, 3, 4.
Each element is one more than
the corresponding element
in the input list.
Here's another map function.
Hello plus str x-- that converts
the input values to strings.
I'm going to map over-- well,
let's just do 1, 2, 3 for now
actually.
And if I convert this
thing back to a list,
I can see what's going on.
Hello 1.
Hello 2.
Hello 3.
So the anonymous function,
the lambda function,
has turned each input element
to a string and prepended hello
to it.
Now, I can do the
same thing for lists
that have elements of
different types in them.
Remember, Python is a
dynamically-typed language.
So here I'm going to say
hello and concatenate that
to the string representation
of whatever I've
got in my list, which is going
to be 1, false, and string
jeremy.
Turn this whole map
function into a list,
and I get back hello 1,
hello false, hello jeremy.
At this point, you're
probably feeling unhappy.
Now you know Haskell,
dynamically typed
lists seem wrong.
Let's do a filter as well.
Filter lamba x goes
to x mod 2 equals 1.
Going to apply this over the
range of integers from 1 to 10,
not including 10.
Again, if I convert
this into a list,
I can see the answer,
which is 1, 3, 5, 7, 9.
Actually, I could have used
a list comprehension here
instead-- x for x in range
1, 10 if x mod 2 equals 1.
And that returns the same value.
For good measure, here's a fold.
I need to import the
functools module.
And now I can say
functools dot reduce.
This is the
foldl function in Python.
Lambda a, b, a times b-- that's
just a simple multiplication--
over the range 1 to 5
with the starting value
1 gives me the product of 1
to 4 inclusive-- effectively
factorial of 4.
Other mainstream languages
now incorporate lambdas
as first-class functions.
Examples include Java 8
released in 2014, and C++ 11,
released in 2011.
In the Comment
section below, please
let us know which
languages you are using
and whether you think there is
scope to write in a functional
style in these other languages.
Another thing to
talk about is syntax.
Now you know the clean and
elegant syntax of Haskell,
does Python seem clunky?
Let us know in the
Comments section.